---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/logseq/bak/30-interests/critical-thinking/critical-thinking/2022-08-15-t09-02-48-385-z/","dgHomeLink":true,"dgPassFrontmatter":false}
---

#critical-thinking

How can we improve our cognitive performance? What can affect our ability to take the right decisions?

## Cognitive Biases
- [[30 interests/Critical Thinking/Hawthorne Effect|Hawthorne Effect]]
- [[30 interests/Critical Thinking/Sampling Bias|Sampling Bias]]
- [[30 interests/Critical Thinking/Survivorship Bias|Survivorship Bias]]
- [[30 interests/Critical Thinking/The Swimmer Body Bias|The Swimmer Body Bias]]
- [[pages/The Dunning Kruger effect - you dont know what you dont know|The Dunning Kruger effect - you dont know what you dont know]]
- 
- Desirability Bias The desirability bias can cause your preferences to affect your judgement and make it difficult to rethink.
## Mental Models
- [[30 interests/Critical Thinking/Inversion Principle|Inversion Principle]]
- Second-Order Thinking
- [[Six Thinking Hats|Six Thinking Hats]]
- [[pages/Negative Brainstorming|Negative Brainstorming]]
- [[pages/1-2-4-All|1-2-4-All]]
## Decision Making
- [[30 interests/Critical Thinking/The Irreversible and Consequential Decision Matrix|The Irreversible and Consequential Decision Matrix]]
- Game Theory - the study of interdependent decision making
- Identify the root problem
- Improve the quality of the information you consume
- Avoid taking decisions during high stress situations
## Critical Questions
- How have you evaluated your evidence?
- Why do you think it's relevant?
- What ideas have you considered but rejected?

## Put in place the definition of being wrong
When you form an opinion, ask yourself what would have to happen to prove it false?
Keep track of your views and see when you were right, when you were wrong and how you thinking has evolved.
## Resources
- [[30 interests/Critical Thinking/L. Thinking, Fast and Slow|L. Thinking, Fast and Slow]]
- [[30 interests/Critical Thinking/L. The Art of Thinking Clearly|L. The Art of Thinking Clearly]]
- [Being Logical](obsidian://open?vault=Highlights&file=highlights%2FBooks%2FBeing%20Logical)
- [[pages/L. The Art of Thinking|L. The Art of Thinking]]
- [[pages/L. How to Think Like a Roman Emperor|L. How to Think Like a Roman Emperor]]
- [Tools for better thinking | Untools](https://untools.co)